Hey, welcome back to Boost Your Income
with Bootstrap to WordPress.
And in this lecture we're gonna
install WordPress in five minutes.
[MUSIC]
All right, and we're back.
Here we are on my desktop.
And in the previous lecture,
we downloaded WordPress.
I was referring to WordPress 4.0.
But WordPress 4.0.1 is out and
if you haven't already downloaded
4.0.1 then go ahead and download that.
Make sure you have the same version as
me cuz we're gonna be using 4.0.1 now.
All right, then you'll have
this zip folder here, 4.0.1.
If you unzip it, you'll get a generic
WordPress folder that looks like this.
Just WordPress.
In there you'll have all the WordPress
files, everything in here, the files and
the folders.
Looks intimidating at first, but
that's why you're taking this course,
to let me ease the pain and show you
that this isn't that big of a deal, and
you will welcome this
chaos into your life.
Just kidding.
Or I'm not.
All right, so let's go ahead and
change the name of that folder to
something easy to remember like b2w.
And what we're gonna be
using is a local server.
We need to have something to
manage the website locally.
Because it's PHP,
we need to have a local server.
And for those of you that don't
already have something installed,
I recommend installing MAMP for both you
PC and MAC users, you can install MAMP.
Just go to mamp.com I believe it is,
or just google MAMP.
For those of you who are using a different
server, if you're comfortable with it and
you know how to manage databases and
everything like that, great.
Otherwise, I would say ditch what
you're used to using and use MAMP.
Just because I'm going to be instructing
with it and I want to make sure we're all
on the same page here to
eliminate any margin of error.
Hopefully that makes sense.
Download MAMP.
Here we are.
We need to change the document
root right here to b2w or
whatever you've called
your WordPress folder.
And you hit OK.
Those servers should get hot and
ready here.
Great.
They're all good to go.
Now, I should be able to go
to my localhost port 8888.
Okay, so it's gonna ask me for
my language but
then it's gonna say hey,
we need some database info.
Great.
This is where we're gonna start doing our
timer to see if it's
possible to do the famous
WordPress five minute install
in five minutes or less.
Keep in mind because I'm talking,
it might take a little bit
longer than five minutes.
I can do this by myself in
maybe a minute to two minutes.
But because I wanna instruct you and
kinda give you some value here, something
that you can digest and remember, it
might take a bit more than five minutes.
But let's see what we can do.
I'm gonna set up this timer here for
five minutes.
Once we hit Go, here we go.
Five minutes, here we go.
All right, so we need to go to local
hosts port 8888/mamp because we
need to access our PHPMyAdmin,
which is right here under tools.
This will allow us to create and
edit our database information.
Here we are in PHPMyAdmin, click on New.
That will allow us to create a database.
Give it a name.
We're gonna call it
Bootstrap to WordPress.
Hit Create and then there is
your database shell right here.
Click on that.
And now we need to add a user.
It needs to have a user that's associated
with the database so that user can
perform actions within that database,
like add new posts and blah, blah, blah.
Keep in mind this isn't
the same as the WordPress user.
This is just the database only.
Under Privileges,
you want to add a new user right here
and then right there, you're going to
add a user name, let's say bootman.
And this would be localhost.
User name could be anything.
And it could be more secure
if you'd like it to be.
Password.
Generate that.
Copy what they have here because
you're going to need it.
And grant all privileges on
database Boot Strap to WordPress.
Great.
Don't do the global privileges or
these other two.
You should be good to go.
Hit Go down in the bottom right.
Boom.
So there we go.
We got our database and our database user.
Now, in our code editor,
open up your b2w folder in your
code editor, and WordPress config sample.
Open that up.
Database name needs to be your database
name, which is bootstrap2wordpress, great.
Username, replace this with user name,
which is bootman.
Password, paste.
It's probably in your clipboard still.
That's the password that
the database generated for you.
And now we need to do the authentication
unique keys and salts.
Sounds crazy, really isn't.
Copy this URL that they
provide you right here.
Paste that in your browser and
it's gonna give you a uniquely generated,
randomly generated unique salts.
So go ahead and copy that.
Paste it in replacement of all of
these defaults, boom, there it is.
Scroll down the last thing you may or
may not want to do is the table prefix,
you can leave it as wp_.
But for security purposes, it's sometimes
better to change that to something a bit
more secure because
WordPress defaults to wp.
Hackers know that your prefixes are wp so
therefore they have one little bit of
information about your database that
maybe you don't want them to know.
Change that if you'd like to
something random or whatever.
So I'm just gonna say db bs bs,
dbbs for database bootstrap.
Why not?
Okay.
I'm gonna save that and
change the name from
wp-config-sample to wp-config.
There it is.
Go back to your local host.
Right, whoopsies.
Local host, port 8888.
All right.
Language is English.
Here we go.
So site title, Bootstrap to WordPress
with a capital P, remember that folks.
Username, create a username for
your WordPress.
So it could be admin, it could be
your name, something more secure.
Go ahead and do that.
I'm gonna say bootstrap_admin.
Add your password,
obviously I'm not gonna tell you mine,
you just need to know yours.
Good enough, obviously it's very weak.
And your email, go ahead and
put that in there and then for
now, don't allow the search engines to
index this site cuz they don't need to,
once it's live you can change that.
Install WordPress And let's log in.
So with your password or
username and password.
And here we are in
the WordPress dashboard.
The front end looks like just
the generic WordPress theme.
Blah, nothing like what
we're gonna create.
But, basically that's it.
We've installed WordPress.
And we did it in five minutes or less.
Here it is.
So we have 30 seconds to spare.
Maybe we could just do a song and dance.
Talk to each other about our feelings.
Or we can cut it short.
Move to the next lecture where we're
going to do even more awesome stuff.
Good job installing
WordPress in five minutes.
You're awesome.
See you there.
[MUSIC]